README.md, before:

# Harmonic Motion

_Harmonic Motion_ is a free open source toolkit for artists, musicians and designers working with gestural data. It provides a robust interface for rapid prototyping of patches to process gestural data and a framework through which approaches may be encapsulated, reused and shared with others. It can also be used as a C++ library without any user interface.

This project was originally developed at the Centre for Digital Music, Queen Mary University of London.

The project is released under an MIT licence meaning you can do what you like except hold us responsible if things don't work (see the LICENCE file for the full text). However, we would appreciate hearing from anyone using the software what you're getting up to (contact details below), and for any academics using it within research to cite the paper mentioned below.

More information about _Harmonic Motion_ may be found at http://harmonicmotion.timmb.com and also within publication about the project at the 2014 New Interfaces for Musical Express (NIME) conference:

http://nime2014.org/proceedings/papers/273_paper.pdf

## Current limitations


- In theory, Harmonic Motion should run on any version of OSX from 10.7 upwards. However, issues have been reported on 10.7, and nearly all testing has been done on 10.9+.

- The only option for getting skeleton tracking on OSX is to use NITE from PrimeSense which, unfortunately, has been removed from public availability after Apple bought out PrimeSense. Harmonic Motion supports NITE under OSX if it's installed but we're not allowed to distribute it. There are copies around on the internet but obviously it's down to you to ensure you do not use software without the appropriate licence. If you don't have NITE (and SensorKinect, etc) installed then the OpenNI node will not be able to find a Kinect. Given this situation, future development is now prioritised towards Windows.

- On Windows, skeleton tracking is made available (only) through the Microsoft Kinect SDK 2.0. It has only been tested and likely only works with the newer Kinect One sensor.

- At the moment, documentation is limited to tooltips.

- 2D camera support does not appear to work on Windows.

- Expressions in the expression node support the following: +, -, *, /, construction of Point3ds as (x, y, z) (e.g. "(0.1, 0.5, 0.3)"). Each line of the expression should be an expression defining an outlet in terms of the inlets, e.g. o1 = 5 * i1 + 3 * (i2 + i3).


## Build instructions

Harmonic Motion is currently split into two modules: __Core__ and __Gui__. __Core__ is a C++ static library without any user interface that may be accessed directly from another C++ application. __Gui__ provides a visual patch-based user interface for working with __Core__. Patches (or 'pipelines' as we often refer to them) created in __Gui__ can be exported as JSON files and then imported directly in __Core__.

Harmonic Motion is built using CMake 3.0.0, and is dependent upon Cinder 0.8.0 (with Boost 1.48) for the Core library and additionally Qt 5.3 for the user interface. Currently it only builds on OSX:

### OSX

1. Clone the git repository to a folder, e.g. ~/HarmonicMotion.
2. Download and install CMake: http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html
3. Download and install Qt 5.3: http://qt-project.org/downloads *NB* You need to install Qt to its default location in your home folder otherwise many annyoing problems will arise when building.
4. Download and install Cinder 0.8.0 either using the Mac OSX package or by cloning it from github: http://libcinder.org/download/
5. Open CMake. In the box marked _Where is the source code_, put in _HarmonicMotion_/src where _HarmonicMotion_ is the folder you cloned to in step 1. In the box marked _Where to build the binaries_, put in _HarmonicMotion_/xcode. Below there is a list of settings - you can leave all of these as they are except _CinderDir_ which you need to set to the location of your Cinder installation from step 4.
6. Click Configure. Click Done if this then shows a dialog. When it's finished configuring, press Generate.
7. You should now have an Xcode project in _HarmonicMotion_/xcode. Open this and select HarmonicMotionGui from the list of schemes (on the upper left, which will initially be set to ALL_BUILD). Press the big play button to build and run the toolkit.
8. At present, the schemes that CMake creates are set to build in Debug mode which will be slower than necessary for general use. To change it to the faster Release mode: click on the list of schemes, select Edit Scheme, choose HarmonicMotionGui from the menu at the top, click on Run HarmonicMotionGui on the list on the left side, then change the Build Configuration option from Debug to Release. Press OK then click on the play button again.
9. The app bundle will be placed in _HarmonicMotion_/bin/Debug or _HarmonicMotion_/bin/Release.

### Windows 8+ (64 bit)

1. Clone the git repository to a folder, e.g. c:\\Users\\Tim\\Documents\\HarmonicMotion
2. Download and install CMake: http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html
3. Download and install Qt 5: http://qt-project.org/downloads *NB* You need to install Qt to its default location in your home folder otherwise many annyoing problems will arise when building.
4. Download and install Visual Studio 2013 (Community edition recommended) from https://www.visualstudio.com/news/vs2013-community-vs
4. Build the version of Cinder included within the repository by navigating within the downloaded repo to lib\\Cinder\\vc2013 and opening the cinder.sln Solution file in Visual Studio 2013. From the _Solution Platforms_ menu select _x64_ and from _Solution Configurations_ select _Debug_. Then go to the Build menu and select Build Solution. When it has finished, change the Solution Configuration from _Debug_ to _Release_ and once again go to Build and select Build Solution. When it has finished, close Visual Studio. You only need to do this step once.
5. Open CMake. In the box marked _Where is the source code_, put in the path to the _src_ subfolder of the repository, e.g. c:\\Users\\Tim\\Documents\\HarmonicMotion\\src. In the box marked _Where to build the binaries_, put in the path to a new folder for CMake to create as a _vs2013_ subfolder of the repository, e.g. c:\\Users\\Tim\\Documents\\HarmonicMotion\\vs2013.
6. Press the Configure Button. Choose Visual Studio 12 2013 Win64 as the generator with _Use default native compilers_ selected beneath. Press Finish.
7. Assuming you're planning to use a Kinect, ensure the _IncludeKinectSDK2_ option is checked. If the version of Qt5 you downloaded was different from version 5.5 then edit the value for QT5_PATH to point to something equivalent for your version (open Explorer and navigate to c:\\Qt to check). Paths in CMake should use forward slashes instead of backslashes.
8. Press Generate and assuming there are no errors, close CMake to continue.
9. There should now be a Visual Studio Solution file called HarmonicMotion.sln in the vs2013 subfolder of the repo. Go and open that.
10. In the Solution Explorer, find the HarmonicMotionGui, right click it and select _Set as startup project_. Select Release from the Solution Configuration if you want an optimized build.
11. On the toolbar click the Play button to build and run.
12. The built app and everything needed to run it should be placed in the bin subfolder of the repo.


## OSC Output

For the standalone applciation, OSC is how you get data from Harmonic Motion into other applications.

At the moment, OSC packets follow the following syntax:

- Value -> (f) /<prefix> <value>
- Point2d -> (ff)  /<prefix> <x> <y>
- Point3d -> (fff) /<prefix> <x> <y> <z>
- Skeleton3d -> set of 25 messages of format: (iffff) /<prefix>/<joint name> <user id> <confidence> <x> <y> <z>
- Scene3d -> As Skeleton3d for each skeleton in the scene, preceded by a message with the total number of users of format: (i) /<prefix>/num_users
- ListValue -> (f...) /<prefix> <value 0> <value 1> ... <value n-1>
- ListPoint2d -> (ff...) /<prefix> <x_0> <y_0> <x_1> <y_1> ... <x_(n-1)> <y_(n-1)>
- ListPoint3d -> (fff...) /<prefix> <x_0> <y_0> <z_0> ... <x_(n-1)> <y_(n-1)> <z_(n-1)>

Joint names are:
	* "Head"
	* "Neck"
	* "Spine top"
	* "Spine middle"
	* "Spine base"
	* "Left shoulder"
	* "Left elbow"
	* "Left wrist"
	* "Left hand"
	* "Left hand tip"
	* "Left thumb"
	* "Right shoulder"
	* "Right elbow"
	* "Right wrist"
	* "Right hand"
	* "Right hand tip"
	* "Right thumb"
	* "Left hip"
	* "Left knee"
	* "Left ankle"
	* "Left foot"
	* "Right hip"
	* "Right knee"
	* "Right ankle"
	* "Right foot"


## Contact

Tim Murray-Browne, July 2014.

http://timmb.com
hi ...at...... timmb dot com
http://twitter.com/timmurraybrowne

## Acknowledgements

Harmonic Motion was developed by Tim Murray-Browne and Mark D. Plumbley at the Centre for Digital Music, Queen Mary University of London. The project was funded by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) under the Platform Grant (EP/K009559/1) and builds on work completed during Murray-Browne's PhD at the Centre for Digital Music which was funded under an EPSRC Doctoral Training Account (EP/P504031/1).

Commit message:

Amendments to make OSX build work again

README.md, after:

# Harmonic Motion

_Harmonic Motion_ is a free open source toolkit for artists, musicians and designers working with gestural data. It provides a robust interface for rapid prototyping of patches to process gestural data and a framework through which approaches may be encapsulated, reused and shared with others. It can also be used as a C++ library without any user interface.

This project was originally developed at the Centre for Digital Music, Queen Mary University of London.

The project is released under an MIT licence meaning you can do what you like except hold us responsible if things don't work (see the LICENCE file for the full text). However, we would appreciate hearing from anyone using the software what you're getting up to (contact details below), and for any academics using it within research to cite the paper mentioned below.

More information about _Harmonic Motion_ may be found at http://harmonicmotion.timmb.com and also within publication about the project at the 2014 New Interfaces for Musical Express (NIME) conference:

http://nime2014.org/proceedings/papers/273_paper.pdf

## Current limitations


- In theory, Harmonic Motion should run on any version of OSX from 10.7 upwards. However, issues have been reported on 10.7, and nearly all testing has been done on 10.9+.

- The only option for getting skeleton tracking on OSX is to use NITE from PrimeSense which, unfortunately, has been removed from public availability after Apple bought out PrimeSense. Harmonic Motion supports NITE under OSX if it's installed but we're not allowed to distribute it. There are copies around on the internet but obviously it's down to you to ensure you do not use software without the appropriate licence. If you don't have NITE (and SensorKinect, etc) installed then the OpenNI node will not be able to find a Kinect. Given this situation, future development is now prioritised towards Windows.

- On Windows, skeleton tracking is made available (only) through the Microsoft Kinect SDK 2.0. It has only been tested and likely only works with the newer Kinect One sensor.

- At the moment, documentation is limited to tooltips.

- 2D camera support does not appear to work on Windows.

- Expressions in the expression node support the following: +, -, *, /, construction of Point3ds as (x, y, z) (e.g. "(0.1, 0.5, 0.3)"). Each line of the expression should be an expression defining an outlet in terms of the inlets, e.g. o1 = 5 * i1 + 3 * (i2 + i3).


## Build instructions

Harmonic Motion is currently split into two modules: __Core__ and __Gui__. __Core__ is a C++ static library without any user interface that may be accessed directly from another C++ application. __Gui__ provides a visual patch-based user interface for working with __Core__. Patches (or 'pipelines' as we often refer to them) created in __Gui__ can be exported as JSON files and then imported directly in __Core__.

Harmonic Motion is built using CMake 3.0.0, and is dependent upon Cinder 0.8.0 (with Boost 1.48) for the Core library and additionally Qt 5.3 for the user interface. Currently it only builds on OSX:

### OSX

1. Clone the git repository to a folder, e.g. ~/HarmonicMotion.
2. Download and install CMake: http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html
3. Download and install Qt 5: http://qt-project.org/downloads *NB* You need to install Qt to its default location in your home folder otherwise many annyoing problems will arise when building.
4. Download and install Cinder 0.8.0 either using the Mac OSX package or by cloning it from github: http://libcinder.org/download/
5. Open CMake. In the box marked _Where is the source code_, put in _HarmonicMotion_/src where _HarmonicMotion_ is the folder you cloned to in step 1. In the box marked _Where to build the binaries_, put in _HarmonicMotion_/xcode. Below there is a list of settings - you can leave all of these as they are except _CinderDir_ which you need to set to the location of your Cinder installation from step 4.
6. Click Configure. Click Done if this then shows a dialog. If you get a fina message saying _Configuration Incomplete!_ after an error complaining that CMake couldn't find Qt5Core then you will need to edit the src/gui/CMakeLists.txt file, search for QT5_PATH and check the line that looks like `QT5_PATH $ENV{HOME}/Qt/5.6/clang_64/`. This is looking for Qt in ~/Qt/5.6/clang_64. If your version is different from 5.6 then you may need to update this line to match. Go back to CMake, go to the File menu and choose Delete Cache. Then try Configure again. When it's finished configuring and there are no errors, press Generate.
7. You should now have an Xcode project in _HarmonicMotion_/xcode. Open this and select HarmonicMotionGui from the list of schemes (on the upper left, which will initially be set to ALL_BUILD). Press the big play button to build and run the toolkit.
8. At present, the schemes that CMake creates are set to build in Debug mode which will be slower than necessary for general use. To change it to the faster Release mode: click on the list of schemes, select Edit Scheme, choose HarmonicMotionGui from the menu at the top, click on Run HarmonicMotionGui on the list on the left side, then change the Build Configuration option from Debug to Release. Press OK then click on the play button again.
9. The app bundle will be placed in _HarmonicMotion_/bin/Debug or _HarmonicMotion_/bin/Release.

### Windows 8+ (64 bit)

1. Clone the git repository to a folder, e.g. c:\\Users\\Tim\\Documents\\HarmonicMotion
2. Download and install CMake: http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html
3. Download and install Qt 5: http://qt-project.org/downloads *NB* You need to install Qt to its default location in your home folder otherwise many annyoing problems will arise when building.
4. Download and install Visual Studio 2013 (Community edition recommended) from https://www.visualstudio.com/news/vs2013-community-vs
4. Build the version of Cinder included within the repository by navigating within the downloaded repo to lib\\Cinder\\vc2013 and opening the cinder.sln Solution file in Visual Studio 2013. From the _Solution Platforms_ menu select _x64_ and from _Solution Configurations_ select _Debug_. Then go to the Build menu and select Build Solution. When it has finished, change the Solution Configuration from _Debug_ to _Release_ and once again go to Build and select Build Solution. When it has finished, close Visual Studio. You only need to do this step once.
5. Open CMake. In the box marked _Where is the source code_, put in the path to the _src_ subfolder of the repository, e.g. c:\\Users\\Tim\\Documents\\HarmonicMotion\\src. In the box marked _Where to build the binaries_, put in the path to a new folder for CMake to create as a _vs2013_ subfolder of the repository, e.g. c:\\Users\\Tim\\Documents\\HarmonicMotion\\vs2013.
6. Press the Configure Button. Choose Visual Studio 12 2013 Win64 as the generator with _Use default native compilers_ selected beneath. Press Finish.
7. Assuming you're planning to use a Kinect, ensure the _IncludeKinectSDK2_ option is checked. If the version of Qt5 you downloaded was different from version 5.5 then edit the value for QT5_PATH to point to something equivalent for your version (open Explorer and navigate to c:\\Qt to check). Paths in CMake should use forward slashes instead of backslashes.
8. If you get a fina message saying _Configuration Incomplete!_ after an error complaining that CMake couldn't find Qt5Core then you will need to edit the src/gui/CMakeLists.txt file, search for QT5_PATH and check the line that looks like `set(QT5_PATH C:/Qt/5.5/msvc2013_64 CACHE PATH "Path to Qt5")`. This is looking for Qt in C:/Qt/5.5/msvc2013_64, which may not be the right place if you've installed a different version of Qt. If that's the case then update this line to match the correct folder on your system. Go back to CMake, go to the File menu and choose Delete Cache. Then try Configure again.
9. Press Generate and assuming there are no errors, close CMake to continue.
10. There should now be a Visual Studio Solution file called HarmonicMotion.sln in the vs2013 subfolder of the repo. Go and open that.
11. In the Solution Explorer, find the HarmonicMotionGui, right click it and select _Set as startup project_. Select Release from the Solution Configuration if you want an optimized build.
12. On the toolbar click the Play button to build and run.
13. The built app and everything needed to run it should be placed in the bin subfolder of the repo.


## OSC Output

For the standalone applciation, OSC is how you get data from Harmonic Motion into other applications.

At the moment, OSC packets follow the following syntax:

- Value -> (f) /<prefix> <value>
- Point2d -> (ff)  /<prefix> <x> <y>
- Point3d -> (fff) /<prefix> <x> <y> <z>
- Skeleton3d -> set of 25 messages of format: (iffff) /<prefix>/<joint name> <user id> <confidence> <x> <y> <z>
- Scene3d -> As Skeleton3d for each skeleton in the scene, preceded by a message with the total number of users of format: (i) /<prefix>/num_users
- ListValue -> (f...) /<prefix> <value 0> <value 1> ... <value n-1>
- ListPoint2d -> (ff...) /<prefix> <x_0> <y_0> <x_1> <y_1> ... <x_(n-1)> <y_(n-1)>
- ListPoint3d -> (fff...) /<prefix> <x_0> <y_0> <z_0> ... <x_(n-1)> <y_(n-1)> <z_(n-1)>

Joint names are:
	* "Head"
	* "Neck"
	* "Spine top"
	* "Spine middle"
	* "Spine base"
	* "Left shoulder"
	* "Left elbow"
	* "Left wrist"
	* "Left hand"
	* "Left hand tip"
	* "Left thumb"
	* "Right shoulder"
	* "Right elbow"
	* "Right wrist"
	* "Right hand"
	* "Right hand tip"
	* "Right thumb"
	* "Left hip"
	* "Left knee"
	* "Left ankle"
	* "Left foot"
	* "Right hip"
	* "Right knee"
	* "Right ankle"
	* "Right foot"


## Contact

Tim Murray-Browne, July 2014.

http://timmb.com
hi ...at...... timmb dot com
http://twitter.com/timmurraybrowne

## Acknowledgements

Harmonic Motion was developed by Tim Murray-Browne and Mark D. Plumbley at the Centre for Digital Music, Queen Mary University of London. The project was funded by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) under the Platform Grant (EP/K009559/1) and builds on work completed during Murray-Browne's PhD at the Centre for Digital Music which was funded under an EPSRC Doctoral Training Account (EP/P504031/1).
